Now that we're tracking when users join and leave we can use that data to send their messages to just
the room they're currently in.
Now getting that done is something you already know how to do.
So it's going to be your challenge for the video right here.
Let's go ahead and outline what I'd like you to do what I'm gonna do is paste in the challenge comments.
And here is what you're going to do.
You're going to make sure that messages get sent to the correct room and you're going to start with
the send message.
Event listener right here.
So inside of here you need to use get user to fetch the user by their socket I.D..
That's going to give you access to user data such as the room they're in and their user name.
From there you're only going to emit the message to the correct room.
So you want to make sure that if they're in the South Philly room these South Philly room gets the messages
they're sending.
And then you're going to test your work.
So join in the same room with two users you should see each other's messages then have them join separate
rooms and you should not see the messages from each user.
Now once you've done that you'll do the exact same thing for these send a location event listener down
below.
So all you're going to do is edit these two functions using the techniques described up above to get
the messages sent to the correct room.
Take some time to knock that out.
And when you're done come back and click play.
All right let's get to it.
Step number one is to use get user to fetch that user data.
So right here const user equals I'll be calling get user providing their I.D..
That is socket dot I.D. then we can use that data when sending our messages off.
So down below what are we going to do right here.
Oh we're going to do is use I O dot to we're going to provide the users room that is user dot room and
then we're going to emit the message to it and that's it.
That's all we needed to do.
But when we weren't tracking the user that just wasn't possible.
Now down below in send location we can do the same thing before testing our work.
So right here once again const user equals using get user and providing their socket I.D. and then down
below we need to chain on the two method call that is Io dot to calling that as a function followed
by dot emit.
And right here that would be user dot room.
Perfect.
So now that we have this in place we can actually go ahead and test things out for both.
Now over in the browser after saving our files we can test things out.
So I'm going to refresh both windows.
And right now we have both Andrew and D.
In that J.S. chat room right here.
I'm gonna send a message and I should see it for both and I do.
Then I'll have the other users send their location and that should show up for both as well once the
location is fetched and it is showing up.
So great start.
Now let's get one of the users out of that J.S. chat room and into a different room.
So over here I'll go over to local host three thousand.
I'm notified that Andy left and I'll have Andy join a different room like H T and L right here.
I'm gonna join and I can see that I'm not notified of him joining.
And if he sends a message like hey that message is only gonna show up for other users in the room right
here the same is true with location messages.
This user is communicating and this user is not seeing it because they're in separate rooms.
And now that we're tracking users it's possible to send messages to just those rooms using the little
bit of code we added here.
So at this in place we're all done with the challenge and we're going to go ahead and remove those challenge
comments.
Now we're not quite done for the video.
There are still a few things I want to knock out before we move on.
One of the most important missing features is that the user name doesn't show up along side of the message
in the chat app.
Right now we have a space for it in the user interface but it's not actually being populated.
And the reasoning for that is that the data is never sent to the client when we emit message or location
message.
We are not providing the name that we want to show.
So we're going to fix that.
We're going to start together with generate location message then it'll be your challenge to do something
similar for regular text messages.
So the goal here is to make sure that the object that gets sent back to the client contains all of the
information it needs.
Now in messages dot Jay asks for generate location message.
This takes in the EU RL and it sends back an object with the U.R.L. and created app.
We're also going to have it take in the user name and send that back as well.
And I'm actually going to make that the first argument so right here the first argument will be the
user name and the second argument will be the U.R.L. and then on the object that I end up sending from
server to client I'm just going to include that user name alongside of the other pieces of data.
So now we do need to change how we're calling generate location message since the first argument should
be the user's name.
So right here we have the U.R.L. as the current only argument being provided we want to provide user
dot user name as the first one.
Perfect.
So now at this point at least the necessary data is finding its way to the client.
It's now the client's job to actually use it.
So over here in chat dot J.S. our client side JavaScript file we have our event listeners up above I
have the event listener for message and location message.
In this case we're working with the location message now one of the problems here is that the template
doesn't get access to this new data.
So we want to supply that on the object just like we're supplying the you are all.
So right here let's go ahead and get that done.
That would be user name getting the value from message dot user name.
Perfect.
Now with this in place the template should be getting the correct data and we can use it inside of chat
down HMO.
So right here we're working with this location message.
And this is where we have the static name.
I'm going to remove that open and close to curly braces.
Then user name right inside.
So at this point we're sending the data from server to client and the client is using it.
Now when I refresh the browser and send a location message I would expect that the actual user name
shows up alongside of it.
So right here I click send location.
It still takes a couple of seconds to actually get that data.
That's fine.
And right here I do see Andrew alongside of the message which is fantastic.
Now that user name is being transferred along with the U R L and timestamp all three are then showing
it to the user in the browser.
Now it's time to get the exact same thing done for our regular text based messages.
And since you already know the necessary steps to do it.
Doing it is going to be your challenge.
So what I'm going to do is add that somewhere in index Dot.
J.S. I'll just put these comments up top end out of the way.
So right here.
Goal render user name for our standard text messages.
Right now we're only rendering it for those location messages.
Step one you're going to set up the server to send the user name to the client.
This means you need to edit the function generate message to accept the user name and to include it
along with this object.
And once you have that in place you need to edit every single call to generate message in this file
you need to add the user name just like we did for our 1 call to generate location message.
Now when it's not coming from a user but it's coming from the system you can use the user name admin.
This would be useful for things like a connect and welcome and disconnect.
This should be asked why ask for a system message.
So you either use the user name or for these specific ones you can just use something generic like admin.
Now once you have all of those calls updated the client needs to actually do something with the new
data it gets.
You want to make sure the user name is rendered in the template.
Then you're going to test your work.
If you do what we just did here I would expect to see admin for the welcome message.
And if I typed a standard message and sent it I would expect to see my name right here.
So take some time to knock that out when you're done come back and click play
how that go.
Let's get to it by editing the Generate message function.
So this is going to accept a user name and I'm going to add that as the first argument though technically
you could have put it as the second one and then down below we'll just go ahead and toss that on the
object that we send back from server to client.
Now with this in place we just need to make sure that we actually provide the user name for every single
call to generate message.
So right here we have our first calls inside of on join.
I send a system message welcome and another system message saying that a given user has joined for both
of these.
What I'm going to do is provide admin as that first argument that is the user name.
I'd like to use perfect these our system messages and we'll stick with a static user name for that next
up down the list.
Where else do we generate a message.
Well right here we do that when sending text based messages.
Now in this case this is coming from a user and we want their name to show up.
So that would be user dot user name as the first argument with their message as the second.
Next up generate message is also used in on disconnect.
So right here when they leave we send a system message and for this we're going to set the user name
equal to admit now that we have all of this in place the server is sending the correct data to the client
the client just needs to actually use it.
So let's go ahead and knock that out in chat dot J s up above this is where we now have access to message
dot user name.
I'm going to provide that to my template
and once it's provided to the Template I'll save the file and change the template.
Up above I have my standard message template and all I'm gonna do is remove some user name and replace
it with two opening and two closing curly braces inside putting the value for user name.
Now with all of this in place we finished off steps 1 2 and 3 the data gets sent from server to client
and the client uses it.
Last up is to test our work.
What I'm going to do is remove those challenge comments and make sure my entire program is saved and
we're gonna head over to the browser and give things a refresh.
Right here I see admin which is a great first start.
I can send a location message which should already be working and I would expect to see Andrew then
I could send a text message like hey hit enter.
And what do I see.
I can see the name showing up.
So there we go.
Now users names are showing up alongside of their messages to wrap up this video.
Let's go ahead and make a couple of small changes to our message input down below.
It doesn't really make sense to use autocomplete here since we're not going to be using the same value
over and over again.
And we're also going to add that required attribute on to ensure that it's provided by the client.
So in index dot H2 UML what we're gonna do wops excuse me it's in chat dot HDL what we're going to do
is make a couple of small changes to our input right here.
Now the one attribute we've already used that was required we used that inside of index dot HDL for
the user name and the room name.
So this is going to make sure that we at least get some value.
The other one we're going to use is not something we've used before that is auto complete and we're
setting that equal to the string off.
This is going to turn off the auto complete functionality which we don't want now you don't always want
to turn that off but for this particular input it does make sense to for something like an email or
a name you should allow them to use the autocomplete feature as they're likely using values they've
used before for other Web sites.
Right here we refresh the browser once again down below I click send and I can see that I get my little
warning so I type a message in and I can see that I'm not getting any sort of auto complete functionality
like I was getting when I typed in H before I was seeing Hey with an exclamation mark.
Now I'm not getting any of that which is great.
This is a much nicer cleaner interface.
So with this in place that's where we're gonna stop for now.
Users are getting the user name of the sender showing up what we're going to focus on from here is that
sidebar.
So in the sidebar we're going to put the name of the room you are currently in and we're going to keep
a live list of all of the active users just down below that.
I'm excited to get to that.
So let's jump right in to the next one.